Section 8 Big Ideas/Learning Objectives
- Understanding What is Iteration
- Using for and while loops

Section 10 Big Ideas/Learning Objectives
- Understanding how to edit lists by adding, inserting, and removing data
- Using loops to iterate through lists and abstract data
- Determine the results or side effects of iteration statements
- Write sorting algorithms using iteration

Section 8 Necessary Vocabulary

Iteration - Repitition of a Process
For Loop - FOR LOOP repeats a function for a set number of times; I is the number of times repeated

While Loop - The while loop is used to repeat a section of code an unknown number of times until a specific condition is met

Initialization - What sets the counter variable to a starting value. For example (var i = 0) represents an initial value of 0.

Condition - Allows the computer to know whether or not to keep repeating the loop.
increment/decrement - Modifies the counter variable after each repetition.

Section 10 Necessary Vocabulary
- Indexing / List Index - The position of an element in a list, starting from 0 append, remove, pop - Various methods, append adds an element to the end, remove removes at an index, and pop removes the last item.
- Elements [in a list] - An item in a list.
- Nesting - Having one data type or function inside another data type or function, such as lists or loops. array - Another name for a list, depends on the language

What is Iteration?
An Iterative statements are also called loops, and they repeat themselves over and over until the condition for stopping is met.

In College Board's Pseudocode, the first is a REPEAT n TIMES loop, where the n represents some number.

The second type of loop is a REPEAT UNTIL (condition) loop, where the loop will continue to run until a condition is met.

A while loop is very similar to an if conditional, except that a while is continually executed until it's no longer true and an if is only executed once.