---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Unit 3 Section 1-2
categories: [Week 14]
title: Unit 3 Section 1-2
---
# Notes

-A program's abstraction that may store a value is known as a variable. Each variable has a corresponding data storage that holds a single value at a time, but that value may be a list or other collection, which in turn may hold numerous values.

-The readability of program code and comprehension of the values that the variables represent are improved by using sensible variable names.

-Some computer languages offer data types, which are referred to by variables, to represent data. Numbers, Booleans, lists, and strings are some of these types.

-One form of datum is more appropriate for representing some values than another.

-a variable is an abstraction inside a program that can hold a value

-assign stored values to a variable

-elements:a single value in a list that has a special index. An index also makes references to elements.

-index:using natural integers when referring entries in a list 

-All types of elements can be stored in lists.

-All list operations result in an error notice and program termination if a list index is less than 1 or more than the list length.

-Data abstraction creates a barrier between a data type's abstract properties and the specifics of its representation.

# Vocab

list: a sequence of several variables grouped together

variable: a way of storing information in a computer program, which could later be changed, referenced, and used

data types: a set of values and operations on those values

abstract data types: a data type whose internal representation is hidden from the client

client: a program that uses a data type

objects: a structure that can take on a data-type value

Applications programming interface (API): which is a list of constructors and instance methods or operations, used to specify the behavior of an abstract data type

# Section 1 Assignment 1

Answers
1
3
1
2
1
4
 
3 of my own questions

Determine the type of data that should be used to answer the following question:

What are the colors of the rainbow?
Answer: string

True or false, coding is fun?
Answer:Boolean

How many commits do you have on github?
Answer: integer

# Section 1 Assignment 2

Answers
3
2
4
2
2
3
1

# Section 2 Assignment

Answers
4
1
3
4
4
2
3
2
6

# Reflection

These lessons were a bit challenging at first but with perserverance I was able to understand the concepts which allowed me to answer the questions correctly. The presentation was great and I learned a lot from it