---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 5.1 and 5.1 with reflection
categories: [Week 17]
title: Unit 5 Stuff
---

5.1

Main Idea
Every invention whether it’s in computer science or something else, has its benefits and its downsides/ disruptions

Ex: Chat GPT
- Chat GPT helps people create assignments just by running through it
redfines the necessity and purpose of search engines
- However, it discourages critical thinking
- Also, Chat GPT is full of bias because there is only one answer and other answers are not considered

Dopamine and its Benefits and Negatives

Dopamine is another example of something that has borth positive and negative effects

- Rosner was a professional gamer who was an example of this. He was celebrated as a World of Warcraft builder and he got lots of dopamine from his success. However, this dopamine was although exciting, it was also detrimental for Rosner. He reported that his grades started tanking and found other healthier activities such as going to the gym and watching films.
- Thus, there were both benefits and harmful effects to Dopamine

Phone Trees

Phone Trees are another example where despite a reduction in need for employees, the process of getting the customer to where they want was time consuming and inconvenient (harmful effect)

Blog Post Reflection
Most developers try to aim for positive effects. However, not every effect of a computing innovation is anticipated in advance. Some effects are harmful. For example, inventors of television, computers, mobile devices, and social media did not intend to unleash a slew of negative consequences for children.
- shortened attention spans
- lack of connection to nature
- cyber bullying and hate groups
- spread of misingormation and fake news The intention was to produce a convenient and modern form of entertainment which in some ways, these fields achieve their goals.

Dopamine Issues are definetely real and I have experienced these issues myself. Sometimes, I can get caught up watching videos or scrolling through social media because of that instant dopamine effect which definetely prevented me from doing homework and affecting my academics. However, some forms of dopamine can definetely be beneficial.Finishing a project you worked long and hard on or helping others can serve as sources of dopamine that aren’t necessarily bad.

5.2 

Digital Divide is the difference in access to technology. Deals with “To Have and Have Not” in relation to computers, internet, or technology in general.

- Some people may have no access to the internet or have worn down computers
- prevents students from being digitally equipped and being able to learn and perform
- Comparatively, Del Norte High School has access to digital software and internet
- Digital Divide between Del Norte and other schools

Contributing factors to divide are socioeconomic, geographic, and demographic

- In San Digeo, there is a regional divide marked by the interstate 8
- Some Religious groups like the amish choose not to use technology

In education equity requires school to provide materials like computers and chromebooks.

- However, there is still a digital divide in the way chromebooks a are hard for coding and have restrictions on them that prevent installation of coding platforms such as vscode

Blog Post Reflection - Digital Empowerment

- One can empower themselves in the digital world by using the resources they have to do the best in their field. A student may have a lack of resources but should still use free chromebooks, school internet, etc. to get their work done. Also, empowerment can be made if more,better resources can be provided. If everone had access to internet and functional computers, computation would be much more equal.
- Someone that is empowered can help someone who is not empowered by sharing access to resources or donating unneeded materials. Someone who needs to create a physics project could greatly benefit from plastic, cardboard, scissors, tubes, etc. even if someone does not need them.
- I believe red tape is the hindrance to digital empowerment because certain rules are unnecessary and prevent people from critically thinkng/ exploring. Website regulations, download regulations all affect a student’s learning.

Reflection 

Questions From Canvas
This project can have many beneficial impacts 
- Help Educate people about sports
- Help me learn to code
- Allow people to keep up to date with their favorite teams if they do not have time
- Entertaining for users to look through

Potential Harms:
- Can lead to people spending to much time
- Could lead to people sports betting
- the website could provide incorrect statistics

Pros of Internet Blocker:
- To help ensure that students go on school friendly sites
- Helps students pay attention during school by blocking certain sites and social medias
Cons of Internet Blockers:
- Websites that are useful are not able to be used
- Many Computer Science sites are not available because they haven’t been verified
- Makes it harder for students to be able to study everything at school

Due to the Digital Divide it can be harder for people without access to technology to be able to have access to the newest advancements and news on their devices. This would put these people at a disadvantage when trying to get into jobs or schools. Additionally, with lots of of complex technology, it could be very hard to be able to know everything. So, we would spend more and more time on our computers, which can be bad for our health and cause people to get more and more distracted.
