---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 5.4 - 5.6
categories: [Week 20]
title: Unit 5 Stuff
---

5.4 Crowdsourcing

- In CSP, with a wide variety of students in the class, we are lucky to be able to have lots of different viewpoints. This will help us develop code which is more accommodating of all people. A crowdsourcing idea which I have for CSP is creating an open source code repository for people to edit. This can be a copy of my own repository, and with the advice of many students, I will be able to see different ways to make my code more efficient. I could initiate this by advertising this during class or on Slack in order to be able to communicate with other students to inform them of the open source code.
- A crowdsourcing idea which I have is by having a form to be able take in consumer input on my Create Performance Task site. This would be able to be requested by anyone on Del Norte and they would answer questions about how they like my program and what could be done to improve it. I would do this because I would be able to get a lot of information about how to better meet the needs of the consumer. This will allow me to see viewpoints I did not see and have an overall better functioning program.
- At Night at the Museum, it would probably be best to supply a form which will allow people to provide their input on my program. I will have a form link at the end of my higher or lower game in order to get user input. I would probably asked for the rating of the game and also add comments or features which they believe they could improve the program. I could create a graph representing the rating of my program and also make outlines and potentially change my code to incorporate the user input into my program.

5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns

- Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal: Waives copyright interest
 - Allows to be accessed on public domain
- Open Source MIT License: The usage of code is not restricted
 - Allows closed source projects to be distributed
 - Authors will be able to get credit. However, this could just mean a  - simple name mention
 - Allows for GitHub repository to be private
- GPL License: Almost any freedom with project, except distributing closed source versions
 - The GitHub repository must be public
- Licenses are guidelines for distribution and usage of code
 - They help to give the author credit and help to keep things confidential
 - Are important for businesses and people to be able to get their money
 - They can be bad when ignored
- Copyright ensures that people can own the work they produce
 - Can be good when people try to claim they own someone else’s work
 - an be bad when the owner constantly restricts usage of their work, even if it is not the main focus(ex. taking profit from creator using their work as background music)
- Sites which “pirate” copyrighted things can be good and bad
 - Technically illegal under licensing rules, but give greater access to items which can educate people
 - Does not give creators credit
 - Can be on sketchy sites which perpetrate scams
- Personal Fastpages: GPL License
 - People can see the project freely
- Frontend/Backend of CPT Project: Open Source MIT License
 - People can use our project as an inspiration for projects they take upon
 - We would like to be cited for our work
 - Allows more freedom with what people want to do with our things

5.6 Safe Computing

- I have seen lots of PII used in GitHub projects. I have seen examples of people using names, phone numbers, emails, and usernames for projects.
- I think PII is important for being able to see information about a specific person. Everyone has their own information which makes them unique, like their awards and special hobbies and these can be shared online on a place like LinkedIn to further careers. Things like phone numbers and addresses are also available, but if they are in the wrong hands, they can be detrimental to people. Things like SSNs and bank numbers should not be in the hands of other people because they are very important to our lives.
- Good passwords are ones which are long and have a variety of symbols, numbers, and letters(upper and lowercase). Bad passwords are simple and reused. To authenticate passwords, websites can have checks on passwords to meet certain length and complexity requirements. Additionally, users may be able to download a program which tells them if one of their passwords is too similar to another one.
- Symmetric Encryption: When a single key is used to encrypt and decrypt data
- Asymmetric encryption: When one key is used to encrypt data and another one is used to decrypt the data
- One example of how we use encryption through AWS is how our repositories use SSH keys. These allow us to encrypt data for our repositiories.
- Phishing schemes which I have learned about the hard way are ones where they slightly change the link of a website to look like they are the regular website, but are actually not. Other potential ways of phishing could be emails where someone impersonates a company or person or phone calls. It is important to pay attention to the details to determine if a call, email, or website is a scam.